Contributors
============

The Insight Toolkit `(ITK) <http://www.itk.org>`_ has been created by
the efforts of many talented individuals and prestigious organizations.
It is also due in great part to the vision of the program established by
Dr. Terry Yoo and Dr. Michael Ackerman at the National Library of
Medicine.

This book lists a few of these contributors in the following paragraphs.
Not all developers of ITK are credited here, so please visit the Web
pages at
`http://www.itk.org/HTML/About.htm <http://www.itk.org/HTML/About.htm>`_
for the names of additional contributors, as well as checking the CVS
source logs for code contributions.

The following is a brief description of the contributors to this
software guide and their contributions.

{ Luis Ibáñez} is principal author of this text. He assisted in the
design and layout of the text, implemented the bulk of the {} and CMake
build process, and was responsible for the bulk of the content. He also
developed most of the example code found in the {Insight/Examples}
directory.

{ Will Schroeder} helped design and establish the organization of this
text and the {Insight/Examples} directory. He is principal content
editor, and has authored several chapters.

{ Lydia Ng} authored the description for the registration framework and
its components, the section on the multiresolution framework, and the
section on deformable registration methods. She also edited the section
on the resampling image filter and the sections on various level set
segmentation algorithms.

{ Joshua Cates} authored the iterators chapter and the text and examples
describing watershed segmentation. He also co-authored the level-set
segmentation material.

{ Jisung Kim} authored the chapter on the statistics framework.

{ Julien Jomier} contributed the chapter on spatial objects and examples
on model-based registration using spatial objects.

{ Karthik Krishnan} reconfigured the process for automatically
generating images from all the examples. Added a large number of new
examples and updated the Filtering and Segmentation chapters for the
second edition.

{ Stephen Aylward} contributed material describing spatial objects and
their application.

{ Tessa Sundaram} contributed the section on deformable registration
using the finite element method.

{ YinPeng Jin} contributed the examples on hybrid segmentation methods.

{ Celina Imielinska} authored the section describing the principles of
hybrid segmentation methods.

{ Mark Foskey} contributed the examples on the
AutomaticTopologyMeshSource class.

{ Mathieu Malaterre} contributed the entire section on the description
and use of DICOM readers and writers based on the GDCM library. He also
contributed an example on the use of the VTKImageIO class.

{ Gavin Baker} contributed the section on how to write composite
filters. Also known as minipipeline filters.
